## Professional Self-Assessment

The time spent taking online classes at Southern New Hampshire University to earn a Bachelor’s of Computer Science has been an enriching and highly beneficial experience. I have learned a great deal of valuable information which can be used in my future career. I have gained skills in data structures, algorithms, software engineering, database and security, team collaboration, and stakeholder communication. I have gained confidence in my coding and development abilities in addition to gaining knowledge of technology and computer science. 
	The experiences I have gained blend together to form a well rounded education. I have had courses which focused on successful team collaboration. In these courses, the methods used to collaborate were taught such as the use of GitHub resources and the importance of version control. Our class worked collaboratively on the same music playlist program files, which taught valuable skills of merging and pulling branches when multiple developers are working at one time. During this course, and several others as well, the importance of working with clients and stakeholders was emphasized. Prompts given for each project have specific desires of the clients and stakeholders described in detail. The importance of paying attention and adhering to these desires and requests is essential to producing a successful project. 
	The projects I have worked to develop in each course have taught me numerous skills including my ability to read, write, test, and debug code in multiple languages, the understanding and use of algorithms, and the ability to engineer and code a physical device. The weather station project which I created from a Raspberry Pi illustrates my understanding and ability to write code using the Python language. The weather station also illustrates the ability to create a physical device using GrovePi to attach various sensors to the device. Each sensor has been engineered to react according to proposed specifications. A copy of the code and a video of the working device are included in the ePortfolio. A project I completed which relates to algorithms and data structures consists of a program used to record and monitor information about animals in a local zoo. This project illustrates my understanding and ability to develop programs with the Java language. It also illustrates my ability to coordinate a program with multiple methods and multiple classes together into one functioning system. The concept and usage of databases was covered in several classes as well. I learned how to work with SQL, SQLite, and MongoDB. In the course where I utilized SQL techniques within MongoDB, I developed a client & server database project. The work completed in this course includes scripts which allow the user to perform CRUD and search functions on data. This experience was another opportunity for me to become more familiar using the Linux operating system and SQL techniques. Additionally, the method of using scripts to perform regularly executed tasks is a valuable asset to have gained. 
This portfolio has been put together to showcase the valuable skills and abilities I have gained while earning my degree. These projects come together to illustrate the completeness of my skillset and the extent of my well-rounded education. Each one not only shows the different skills I have learned, but also the methods and concepts which were consistently taught throughout each course I completed. The portfolio as a whole works to fully illustrate the skills and abilities I have gained from the Bachelor of Computer Science degree program at Southern New Hampshire University.  


## **[Click Here for Code Reviews](amanda-kiefer.github.io/CodeReview)**

## **Software Engineering Project**
-[Click Here to View Weather Station Project](amanda-kiefer.github.io/WeatherStation)

## **Algorithms and Data Structures Project**
-[Click Here to View Zoo Monitoring System Project](amanda-kiefer.github.io/ZooMonitor)

## **Databases Project**
-[Click Here to View Client/Server System Project](amanda-kiefer.github.io/Database)
